---
title: OMPL Web Development - Part 1
date: 2015-06-08
---

---

This summer, I am working in the [Kavraki Lab](http://www.kavrakilab.org)
research group at Rice University. My main project this summer will be to
create a web application that will allow users to solve motion planning
problems for robots using the Open Motion Planning Library.

An existing application, called
[OMPL.app](http://ompl.kavrakilab.org/gui.html), is available for desktop clients
but it involves a fairly lengthy installation process. The purpose of the web
application is to provide all of the features of the desktop application and
then some. Users will be able to configure a motion planning problem and solve
for a solution path. Upon success, the solution will be displayed and the user
will be able to interact with the path. The functionality described thus far
already exists in OMPL.app, but the web application will have several key
improvements.

## Speed

One of primary motivations for creating the web version is to drastically
reduce the time it takes to go from being interested in motion planning to
actually creating and solving motion planning problems. The
following steps must be carried out before solving a motion planning problem:

>OMPL.app
>
>1. Download the OMPL library and its dependencies
>2. Install all dependencises
>3. Build OMPL
>4. Generate Python bindings
>5. Run OMPL.app

>OMPL Web
>
>1. Open the website

OMPL.app can take hours to setup; the web implementation will take mere seconds.

<div class="subtitle">Benchmarking</div>

The other important improvement will be planner benchmarking. OMPL takes a
sample-based approach to motion planning and there exist many planners for
utilizing different sampling methods. In addition to the dozen or so planners
that are available within OMPL, users can create their own planners and use
those instead. Due to the significant variation in how planners operate,
selecting a particular planner may yield better results for a specific query
than some other planner. For this reason it is important to have the ability to
compare the results of different planners for a given problem. Currently,
planners can be compared on the [Planner Arena](http://plannerarena.org) website.

Once a user is satisfied with their problem configuration on the OMPL Web
application, they will be able to submit a job to the server
for benchmarking. They can specify benchmarking parameters such as
the number of iterations to run each planner, time limits, etc. When the job is
completed, the user will be notified and their results will be available
on Planner Arena for analysis.

In the next development blog entry, I will discuss the work that I've completed
so far and the high level plan for the remaining development.

[OMPL Web on GitHub](https://github.com/prb2/omplweb)

[Open Motion Planning Library](http://ompl.kavrakilab.org)
